	    Application or Bust?

The modern application paradigm is seldom app-
reciated beyond its own fancy graphics and high-
priced designer fonts in contrast to the Microsoft
Windows applications from
which it came. For those who remember the early
Windows 3.1 applications that were so slow to
load that you could actually see the brute force
instantiations happening as the foreground took
over from the minimized state. In fact - the
entire GUI (graphical user interface) eventually
became synonymous with application windows as the
reason for turning on the computer. Because fam-
ously, Bill Gates didn't know what to do with more
than 68 KB (kilobytes). 

People eventually figured out what to do, building
apps such as Shazam or Winamp or Spotify and those
who stuck with the typewriters were eventually left
behind by spell check and Britney Spears Youtube 
videos in the background instead of living room
records. The Windows operating system (OS) - as separate 
from the Windows applications running on them pioneered
an entirely new way of HCI (human computer interface)
centred on the GUI and the file-folder-application par-
adigm. It dealt with its fair share of abuse from
early authors of code, programming all sorts of 'warez'
and 'trojans' into various executables. As the name
suggests, 'executables' are application instantiations
built by 3rd party authors and programmers specifically
for executing windows subroutines into user applications.
The applications are dependent on memory, compiled GPU 
runtime threads and HCI user input to perform tasks. As 
a result of trusting its registry and device driver
cybersecurity constraints, all kinds of professionals 
gained
certificates and diplomas towards becoming ever
more experienced in Microsoft infrastructures, esp-
ecially as it relates to enterprise solutions with 
names like .NET and SharePoint. For the first time
in history a manufacturer had opened up its product
and allowed people all over the world to place stick-
ers all over its operating system. It became bloated 
with spyware,
randomware and other scars of launching itself into
the incredible pits of fires in GeoCities and early 
internet HTML. 

Having done away with executables, Apple next revolu-
tionized
the world by retailing an 'App Store' market. A secure
totalitarian online ecosystem of Nazi-like control on any 
and all applications were loaded atop their formidable opera-
ting systems built for notebooks, desktops and mobile
phones. Applications had gone from complicated IT structures
sometimes with sticker prices in the hundreds of thousands
for enterprise customers by Oracle or VMWare to a well-
managed bi-directionality between Apple QA and these 3rd
party QA teams charging $9.99 and free avatar skins with
one-touch purchases. Increasingly relying on DevOps, Testers 
and Architects all working together 
in Waterfall, Agile or Skunkworks, modern sandboxed building
teams, minimizing bugs 
and create amazing user experiences for the world.

All this came crashing down on Apple shortly after it had 
beaten out Adobe Flash as the gateway to internet media. It
successfully lobbyied out from the woodworks HTML5 and ceas-
ing its support for any Flash add-ons from its browsers also
made it less dependant on anyone or anything for its best in
class quality. Then FBI decided that it should have unfettered 
access to
Apple iPhone backdoors for investigative purposes and in gathe-
ring evidence against criminals so-called. It would have been 
akin to warranting seizure of your photo albums, rolodex, 
mail deliveries and even the kitchen sink if the 
FBI was suspicious enough about your person to merit such an
occupation of your time, during routine traffic stops as with  
gangster drug busts. The moment this happened all applic-
ations loaded 
atop your smartphone would be vulnerable to these technolog-
ical
backdoors the FBI was demanding Apple build for them. The
public reaction was as expected: Apple shouldn't be forced
to do anything it deems unsafe for its devices, even if law
enforcement believes it should have priority over the life-
blood of modern living in digital ecosystems and online
communities. This probably speaks volumes for the mentality
of law enforcement over the past few centuries. Mainly we
should trust law enforcement exactly because they have access
to the backdoors of a city, snuffing out crimes and opport-
unities from the nooks and cranies of jewellery stores
and butcher shops alike. No one doubts that law enforcement prob-
ably does have priviledged access to what is seen in a muni-
cipality nor that it should have but somehow the logic becomes
absurd once that access involves our personal cell pho-
nes or browser search history.
That one time, instead of searching for 'deviled eggs' the 
you typoed yourself into entering 'defiled eggo' with the 
search results spitting out all kinds of images of burned 
toast and accusations.  

Apple still hasn't fully recovered from that mess and while
applications are nevertheless thriving communities as Youtube
Spotify and Netflix can attest to (accounting for its attempted 
takeover of half of Hollywood). But security and data have
not been sorted and all kinds of people everywhere are at 
risk of ai conversations leaking their therapy-like data to any-
one with the checkbook to pay for it. Just like the FBI back-
door which was itself rumoured to have been built anyway by
some activist hackers for a few thousand dollars. It's unclear
whether applications will remain front and center within new
paradigms of ml modeling and ai vibe-coding but one point which
remains emphatic is that IT systems are now shared in expert-
ise by OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) like Apple, the 
authors who manage the codebase and increasingly average cust-
omers
who can build their own agentic patches to repair the under-
lying frictions between hardware sensors and our true intent-
ions. These new software self-resiliences and sustainabilities 
will 
increasingly be with those who access to the code, open, closed 
or provided with keys and secret handshakes to engineers qualif-
ied to read it.

As stackoverflow says it best:

"There will always be a need to provide clear specifications 
to computation devices".