Ai as a Mechanic

I will premise this start with a caveat that I
am not a mechanic. The distinction is important
because other than lawyers, mechanics are among
those professionals who would never let anyone
do their job, in this case - repair an automob-
ile. 

As with most thing in life, using Ai also invol-
ves some sort of bargain or compromise. Would 
you rather struggle through a problem and learn
a few things along the way or get straight to
the point and finish that task you set aside the
week for? The distinction matters a great deal.
Do people attend university for the books or 
for the wisdom? If it were simply for the books
then there'd be no reason to go to class, work
on assignments or struggle threw final exams.
If possessing a book or course materials was an
end in itself then parents could even get a head-
start. Instead of sending kids to college, to
learn about new societies, cultures and make a 
few mistakes at the bar they could stash the 
books away in their kids' rooms and only the 
ones who really appreciate the knowledge would 
find it in themselves to crack a open a Dosto-
evsky or Melville. Not that a 5 year old could
ever appreciate such a classic but who knows
what they'll get out of it. Like a Duesenberg
out of place around city potholes maybe they'll 
simply enjoy the cover art.

And this is the current bargain we must each neg-
otiate as we navigate the new perils of Ai know-
ledge. Will we forever be reliant on hallucinations
or will we gain the self-resilience to conduct
ourselves well in situations and command respect
from those around us, creatively using language
in a way that Orwell had hoped to "bring trans-
parency and clarity in all of our languages". Ai
gives you the answers immediately and we are al-
ready reliant on it as engineers were of the calc-
ulator some 50 years previously. Personally, I do
prefer working out with Notepad and occasionally
testing myself with only typing tests letting my
mind wander into free-form associations of thought
that have garnered me a reputation as an eccentric
artist in which professional engineering circles 
do simply raise an eyebrow at. 

Quantum state engineering is no joke. Laypersons
might look at network states or VHDL layouts as 
esthetically pleasing, even art - but in all the
symmetries and geometries scientists are uncover-
ing deep mysteries about our universe that affects
every single inhabitant of this planet. Are atoms
more quantum or more as energy? Quantum computers
have come a long way since the early days of fight-
ing for coherence among the qubits (quantum state
of compute atoms) and now that we have recursive
methods of adapting in GHz time durations, we are
already deep enough into the weeds where manual con-
troll of each would be unfathomable. In biblical
terms, you might say we have have lost the atoms 
from the molecules. Good Christians focusing on lit-
eral meanings is in a way the same challenge scien-
tists face in bringing to coherence large forests
of molecular arrays. In a way, Ai is nothing but
a very elaborate collection of bits and bytes which
are themselves derived from these quantum states, or more
precisely, the molecular formations and conductances
of transistors and vaccum tubes, regardless of double-
slits or Schroedinger realities. The latter being
out of favour other than professional rockers and
those old fellas who still love the heck out of
their vinyls. 

Quantum computers are probably a few decades away
from being anything more than laboratory science
but it embodies the very real sci-fi fears of
all kinds of doomsdayers afraid of out of contro-
l Ai applications onto the world. What was once
the purview of PID analog controllers, influencing     
operational spectrums is quickly becoming self-
replicating software dominance on the order of angst-
roms and where the invisble hand of economics sees 
no bounds. In a way, using Ai for yourself can be 
associated with the old adage "how you do anything 
is how you do everything". 

Ai assistance is a great technological invention,
akin to the dictionary. And while the dictionary
enabled many more writers and historians to share
in collective wisdoms, it also leaves portions of
your organization outside itself and at the mercy
of this dependance. We are already seeing AI reg-
ulations included in corporate by-laws and codes
of conduct and this is a good moment to take a 
pause and reflect on how you wish to grow your
organization for a whole new world of software applic-
ations that are great at reaching goals but not
necessarily well-versed in your cultures.

Contact us today for a free consultation to dis-
cover how you might want to incorporate all these
new tools into your organizations designs!






 