Copyright Act of Canada

For all the makers, artists, scientists, writers, technologists and
engineers - the Copyright Act of Canada is a valuable resource for
protecting certain portions and aspects of your creations.

One particular passage that should be approached with care, especially
where many IEEE 802.11ax WLAN networks (Wi-Fi) are shared and where 
intranet message boards, user groups, wikis, file sharing, ftp 
and even 5G social media (vs offline) storage of files and folders might one day
be vulnerable from this kind of passage (unintentionally):

"Communication to the public by telecommunication
2.4  (1)  For the purposes of communication to the public by telecommunication,
(a)  persons who occupy apartments, hotel rooms or
dwelling units situated in the same building are part of the public, and
a communication intended to be received exclusively by such persons is a
communication to the public;"

This might strike you all as not being particularly shocking of a
statement. After all, multi-dwelling unit buildings often have common
courtyards, atriums, lobbies and shopping which would all easily
be considered 'public' by any sane and reasonable person. The issue
with this passage and the reason parliament felt the need to
distinguish private rooms, persons or guests of a multi-unit building from 
as defined in Residential Tenancies Acts is that they didn't want to
limit controls for Copyright holders towards enforcements of what
constitutes an express. In other words, when does sharing 
or a re-broadcast infringe upon enforceable standards possessed
by these Copyright holders in order to protect how their works
are broadcast or expressed, without their consent and especially
when dealing with nuances of telecommunication
technologies, contract agreements and evermore multiplex buildings
being constructed in our cities. For instance - if a person occu-
pying an apartment in a large building legally rents a PPV
UFC event and decides to share the feed with friends in the build-
ing and "received exclusively by such persons" then that would be a public
re-broadcast contrary to the Copyright rights held by the UFC.

In a way it is revealing that parliament does zone in and focus on
'received exclusively' as being the lynchpin in that clause for how
the term public is to be received by the reader. In fact - one could
almost conclude they are deliberately readying the waters for how
5G networks (which are really just Big Telecom WLAN networks) will 
one day be widely available personal broadcast channels. This def-
inition of public quickly shifts from a legislative one to a tech-
nological limit which carriers and internet providers, using Ai edge
cases might find foothold for enforcing arbitrary censorship or 
other authoritarian measures of enhanced surveillance techniques
that used to be the purview of state actors alone. 

In one generation, the internet has opened up an entirely
new economic regime of consensual influencers using platforms like 
Youtube and Instagram to monetize their copyrights and shared 
works. We are collectively better for it. 5G and artificial 
intelligence (Ai) empowers individual copyrights 
and opens up many new such economic regimes for which the definition 
of public becomes front and centre towards when the legal rights 
for instance of Meta, itself ushering in
these new technological means of "sousveillance", so-called has its
own definitions of what constitutes public and non-consensual. Neuraldata
is increasingly becoming a technical term used by governments around the
world. In essence, it is the enhanced version of DRM Datarights as applied
to future generations of wearable devices following the footsteps of Fitbit
like Neuralink's Blindsight or Telepathy.
Fitbit has its own DRM and implantable health devices such as pacemakers 
and cochlear implants have been worn by patients for decades now
and with their own EHR standards is now more vulnerable to sophisticated new 
network topologies that will
blur the lines between private and public, further. Neuraldata rights might even
find overlap with traditional copyright rights, especially when economics
gets involved but it should at least  be mentioned in passing that 
several modern intellectual property legal cases have revolved around
'fair use' rights where public techno-oligarchs such as Oracle, Google and Meta
have sought refuge to various modicums of success. Just like it would be unfair
to disclose publicly the copyrighted protections of your favourite pastries so too
does it matter a great deal that governments involve themselves where our definitions
and understandings of these public terms are at risk. 



