Data Ownership

Over the past few months Meta has been steadily
rolling out its new line of glasses with front-
facing cameras and integrated Ai assistant that
is built around its development of the Muse Spa-
rk model. It ushers in a future for a new realm
of intelligence about our surroundings. These 
devices will alert us about upcoming traffic jams,
architectural histories and other features we're
only scratching the surface in using Ai on our
daily routines.

It is a marvellous innovation and Meta picks up
from efforts by scientists, pioneers and also 
Google, who acted as a pariah during the first
roll-out of such a thing to bear the brunt of
society's unreadiness for the de-centralization
of paparazzi cultures. In all honesty, the came-
ra has been in our faces for quite some time and
the term "glassholes" was not altogether unfair
given society's lack of patience for the 'gotcha'
journalism where even bears in hibernation are gi-
ven their thirty minutes of fame, whether they 
like it or not. Data ownership is part and parcel
with this new paradigm shift of personal comp-
uting. For instance - imagine these British tab-
loids and their fleet of paparazzi regulars, sport-
ing telescopic lenses and CCD patents were sudden-
ly told that all their images and data would be 
necessarily held on corporate servers. Freelancers
would no longer be able to shop around their images
while bosses and managers decide instantly on pub-
lication merits. Cameras would no longer serve our
interests as extensions of ourselves as mechanical
tools but instead shapeshift into corporate telescopes
complete with new ai-triggers delivering instant 
content to your inbox, letting the courts decide if
it has gone too far. The issue doesn't exist on
whether or not we want to trust these new tech oli-
gopolies with our data but what are the implications
both in the short term and the long term of giving 
up our personal data to corporate overlords. In this
stance, technologies cease being extensions of our-
selves for ourselves but simply another ubiquitous
product that we throw out yearly, leading to all sorts
of ad absurdums like

"We apologize Mr Smith but when you decided to allow
wireless updates into your gallbladder you were told
contractually that these updates would be required
on an annual licensing agreement and without payment
we have no choice but to cease supporting your opera-
ting system as it has now been one year past its war-
ranty."

The consequences are real. Talk to any independent
garage or veteran bicycle mechanic and you'll learn
how the bargain for sophisticated software has affe-
cted their ability to repair that which is owned by
them. Manufacturers are reluctant to share code that
can be copied and corrupted and consumers are rich
with new leases and cheap credit, unwilling to spend
the time to repair or refurbish old. The battle isn't
just for all our personal data, evidence or memories
but to what extent we believe in capitalism to manage
citizens of earth like it manages employees.

Contact us for a free consultation on how these new 
data tools can be used at your organization.

- picture in picture







