
A hot button topic at the moment is whether Ai-driven
biological research should be given the light of day.
The real danger to this kind of work would be in
sharing Ai hallucinations that are either maliciously
under-researched or just plain wrong, causing undue
panic in the media and even amongst pro-
fessionals. You might say
the advantage of peer-driven research should be to
catch these sorts of errors but often times tiny 
details are either uncaught or initially deemed ir-
relevant and when Ai is involved no one feel comfo-
rtable second-guessing a computer program.

I think in this age of more and more research using
Ai as an enhanced research tool, increased emphasis
should be placed on clarity and good writing allowing
more laypeople to voice an opposition. After all, it
shouldn't just be left to private researchers on whether or
not experimental protein folding should be taking place
in one's community or research institution. 

In one embodiment, increased sensitivity around the 
edges of science does allow better simulations and
predictability inside chemical formulations which could
lead to better safety measures and standards. Organ-
izations around the world would benefit immensely  
from decreased time experimenting with formulations,
whipping up new products quicker than you can finish
reading this sentence. In many ways, it isn't a new
scientific debate - how much private research should
be shared with the public? Many technologists believe
there is no greater role for government than to issue
grants and scholarships (from tax dollars) to these
private research institutions. In applying for grant
money, universities and research centers are essentially
entering into agreements with the public. And while
Elon Musk did expose a few embarrassing spends which
were accountable to no one, the removal of these funds
formed a significant precedent that must be made 
between government and research bodies. If in research-
ing proprietary sciences they wish to keep private for
means of market utilization - that is essentially an
arrangement that values profits over public aware-
ness. And this is exactly what Ai is meant to over-
come, a laypublic that doesn't understand the science
portals they have been trained to technologically 
operate. This form of public alienation should come
as no surprise to pundits who have been tackling main-
stream science issues such as climate change and
cybernetics for decades. Private research towards the
ends of market utilization should never come at the
expense of public scrutiny. If the capitalists want
to hide, they shouldn't gain access to public infra-
structures, including Ai sciences. 










