                 Notepad

I have a confession to make. I've been hypno-
tized for decades by the benefits of modern
word processor applications like Word or Google
docs. The benefits are indeed immenseful, inclu-
ding real-time typo verification and word
count (Notepad 10 has recently taken the liberty
of removing this feature). I say I had been
hypnotized because I've decided to remain 
steadfast to the Windows operating system and
since listing the differences between the 
desktop and the online version (365 One Drive)
would be far too complicated for this post
I will keep my lament to the online version  
only. 

Online makes a lot of sense for several
reasons especially while working out of a laptop
and inserting regularly different USB flash
drives for drivers, files and that friend's
mixtape that carries the hypochondriac warnings
of an operating system that no longer relies
on McaFee or other anti-warez precautions.
The internet is clean now, right? Anyway, I
probably have a few outsourced kids from 
India inspecting the spywares on my computer
to meet some pirate quota bonus on whether
3rd party spywares are themselves obeying 
the honor among thieves.

I had been wrestling for several hours with
some typical .pdf margin errors as an auto-
mated feature of the 'justify' margin styles. 
I had gotten to the point where I had
convinced myself that Google simply couldn't
handle the large file sizes as a gentle nudge
in recognition that desktop Word is the real
way to work with large files. Since I
wasn't ready to commit that far, wanting to
simply test the waters with another online 
word processor I came to the conclusion that
all online word processors are riddled with
battle scars of decades of feature creep. Yup,
in comparison to Notepad, these behemoths are
like the differences between the Taj Mahal and
the shed you use on fishing trips to cook a 
good flathead with black peppercorns and a 
spice-infused supper oil. 

In reality, notepad is the typewriter you should
have been using to practice your typing skills
instead of relying on these modern word pro-
cessors to correct your syntax. Who really 
cares if your run-on sentence makes your mean-
ing clear and your grammar passes the only
creative test that matters: do you like it
or not? Just don't expect Dostoevsky novels
if you can't get along with the editors.


Notepad is truly at a strange place in time 
at the moment. For decades it was ignored 
on Windows because there's no reason not to
do Word as part of the full office suite of 
products, especially since job descriptions were
explicit on this point that unless you had
Word and Excel skills you wouldn't be hired.
My first explorations back to Notepad came 
as a result of the announcement by Microsoft
that it was going to be supporting new avenues 
of Ai integrations for co-pilot, including 
into Notepad. I was excited by this. Anyone
who has worked directly with source code in
Visual Studio will appreciate that sometimes 
you simply want the application to get out
of the way and let the languages take over. 
Here's where Notepad comes in. Its purity 
and lack of features (including word count!)
is now its resurgence for those who can live
without the discipline of finely arranged 
margins and the dominant voices of editors 
who will accept your run-on sentences as a
personal style choice. I am liberated in 
expression as I am in my appreciation that
Notepad is akin to an old Volkswagen, with
the water-cooled engine that makes it purr 
like a racehorse. Seriously, my typing skills
aren't overly impressive, maybe 65 words per
minute but lately my online word processors
have made me feel that their latencies are
more important than my next thought. Notepad
offers the freedom of mind and a kind of
flow similar to typing on some mechan-
ical typewriter and instead of it correcting
your language in real-time, new Ai integrations 
allow you to enhance your structures and
styles on your time. Used in conjunction with 
agentic add-ons and large language models or
vibe-coding practices, the modern technologist
is empowered within Notepad like never before!

Contact us for a free consultation on how you
can regain the freedom that your technology
stack deserves instead of wrestling in the
mud with an unruly IT infrastructure that 
sucks out all the life from your operations.

board-traditionalai@outlook.com  





 















