                  Right to Repair

Some technology enthusiasts might remember the secret
ethos behind the Apple computer company. In its early
embodiments, a few computer pioneers in late 1970s Cali-
fornia started a 'homebrew' computer club meeting regu-
larly to share info and promote entrepreneurship in the
nascent markets born by computing power. Steve Jobs 
and Steve Wozniak dedicated long hours and much debug-
ging towards building the operating system, hardware
motherboard and peripheral devices that eventually be-
came the original Apple computer, Macintosh I.

The two battled competing corporate interests such as
IBM and arcade manufacturers to build out a personal
computing market which had never existed before. The
internet was in its early stages and they saw a busi-
ness opportunity selling them as gateways into the
unknown. As the story goes, Wozniak offered HP the 
opportunity to purchase the early prototypes since
he had used some of their technical equipment late in
the evenings when much of the HP employees had gone
home for the night. HP wasn't interested and in the
spirit of respecting intellectual property rights, the
tandem eventually also fell at odds with the homebrew 
club, opting
instead for official patents and privatized developments.
Apple is well-known for superior quality but also in
segregated silos, demanding corporate cultures and
much secrecy that led Jobs to work even later nights
and become partially estranged from his wife and 
kids. The world has followed the beat of the Jobs and
Wozniak drum and true to form, the smartphone has be-
come increasingly as inoperable as a body part. 

In contrast, bicycles have evolved into motorbikes,
electric-assist and increased speed. The form has
remained steadfast and the simplicity of the bicy-
cle strong in cultures of repair, parts and self-
sufficiency on streets worldwide. The smartphone 
however evolved alongside tighter corporate integrations and
massive amounts of data perfecting locked-down des-
igns requiring specialized tools and security 
restrictions. "Right to repair" legislation in North-
America attempts to bargain some of this leverage
back into the hands of independent repairers and
consumers, especially as it relates to the rights
and priviledges of ownership, including data. Manu-
facturers are encouraged to release diagnostic tools
and repair equipment, including drivers and even
firmware updates.

As we shift away from the 'homebrew' culture of hard-
ware and into ever-increasing infrastructures built by
IT, programming knowledge and familiarity with software
languages takes centre stage. Vibe-coding with newly
released large language models (LLM) such as OpenAi
ChatGPT or Claude 3.5 allows codebases to be widdled
and polished by all kinds of amateur enthusiasts. More
advanced projects, incorporating offline data blobs,
stricter processing requirements or more diversified
weightings can be handled by experts and consulting
firms for a pretty penny.

We're somewhere in the middle of this culture, provi-
ding knowledge and research towards developing your 
corporate self-resilience, one brick at a time so you 
can feel on top of your tech stack, resorting to DevOps
only if you need to. 

Reach out to us for a free consultation to discuss how
we might help you turn your can of spaghetti into a finely-
tuned plate of control!     







 
