			Teams

Software development has progressed much in the past
thirty years. I remember writing HTML code with the
help of a built-in Linux editor, balancing WYSIWYG
with server-side runtime requirements such as AJAX
or standalone Javascript. It felt similar to working
on a bicycle before the dawn of Youtube videos. You
had to fiddle with the parts a bit before getting it
just right. And once you had achieved that kind of Zen
any kind of rattle or noise during a ride simply had
to be adjusted immediately. I had a passion for front
end development before the term was coined. I loved
looking at how all the CSS elements came together in 
similar styles of art to build a public webpage, seen
by anyone and akin to placing some canvas next to the
Sistine Chapel. For those that remember the infamous
smudge tool fiasco this might be especially funny!

I'm not insisting that everyone needs to be a mechanic
just to enjoy the value of riding the bicycle as a 
means of active transportation. Personally
I enjoy the exercise of riding a bicycle to work in the
morning and while I still require an automobile for many
tasks of urban living, I choose the freedom and fitness
of starting each day slightly less convenient and luxurious
than the roar of a modern car. After all, Weezer has been
saying for a while that we'd be well-advanced taking our 
surfboards to work while automobiles run out of fuel in
traffic. 

The automatic transmission
is one such embodiment of how convenience replaced skill,
enabling more people without technical aptitude to benefit
easily from the freedom of travel that the automobile 
offers. (insert story). Software is itself a major shift
both in design and execution of how our mechanical worlds
come together and the software industry has also shifted
in several new directions over the years from advocacy
and lobbying from enthusiasts and professionals. The trend
has steadily been towards more and more automation which
offers more and more entry to more and more people. Webpages
can be built and maintained online, offline, with dashboards,
text files and there's no shortage of design firms and cons-
ulting practices which will build them for you. 

I think this
is a good approach to take when considering how to design
your tech stack and to what extent you hire internal expertise
or allow vibe-coding and prompt engineering to flesh out
the inner workings of your technological requirements. You
probably could adjust that front derailleur screw if you spent
enough time fiddling with it, committing to the maintenance
and misery which inevitably follows or you could hire a bicycle
mechanic to solve it as with the ease of a well-published hard-
cover novelist drafting an email. Agentic tools within this
new paradigm forces us all to make decisions on how much we're
willing to pay for convenience, how much of a craftsman we ought
be and to what extent we're willing to follow the guidance of
a chatbot instead of fiddling with it ourselves.

Contact us now for a free consultation on how we might guide you
in your own decision-making processes.




