               Smartphone Adoption

Few technologies are as ubiquitous upon humanity as the
smartphone. The smartphone or rather the applications
that run on them have changed how humans talk to each
other, bank with each other, share with each other and
has quickly become a necessity in many professions and
in many of life's modern circumstances. Millions of years 
ago the dinosaurs ruled
the earth. Evidence is scarce on how these societies
functioned with common wisdom portraying some angry
giant with shark-sized teeth chasing its prey through
jungles and rainforests. But we've also learned through
archaeological science that some were also herbivores,
surviving like a bored gorilla on plants, roots and 
vegetables. 

The size of these giants merits appreciation - the 
sauropods are believed to have grown to maturity to
a staggering height of 5-6 storeys, nearly 60 feet
above the ground. Not only would they be ill-equipped
for modern smartphone touchscreens, their long necks 
would have had to bend 30-40 feet each time just to 
check who's calling. 

"T-Rex here, new coconuts who dis?"

It probably seems silly to you to think that the smartphone
would have been designed in any other image than that of
the modern human, devolved of fur, with opposable thumbs and
with an expanded skull, larger brains and the ability
to wield grammatical trash talk with the best of them on
the socials. After all, it isn't the size that matters
it's how you use it. And humans have been using brain for
centuries and millenia. Jared Diamond writes a fascinating
thesis in the book "Guns, Germs and Steel" where he prov-
ides an exhaustive synopsis of western European developments
especially in the face of indigenous populations with equi-
valent brain sizes but significantly less science, technology
and affluence. The subtle nuance in comparing indigenous 
tribes relying on expert knowledge of nature, in mushrooms
and plants is the assumption that if given the choice to shel-
ter indoors, develop lots of technology and affluence (in 
other words an economic "emerging market	") and entertainment
that surely the fruits of capitalism would entice all
to trade in markets and accumulate wealth. It's tough to 
resist this argument - nearly 75% of all humans on earth are
now in possession of a smartphone device. 

There are a few key features on the smartphone that sets it
apart from other inventions historically, including the print-
ing press, dictionary and steam engine. You might have already
jumped to that conclusion, but the smartphone - while creating
new economic markets, increasing job mobility and making all
sorts of new entertainment products also replaces in parallel many 
previous
innovations, rendering them useless to all but who wield it. Calc-
ulators, televisions, gaming consoles, photo albums, town halls,
DVDs, etc are all stuck in another decade and getting them out
of there is no small task, especially when 75% of the world is
flat out against them. But don't feel bad for the DVD - it is,
in many ways as historical as the stone tablet stored in some 
Egyptian's basement. Unfortunately, the Egyptians built all sorts
of underground mazes for the afterlife so finding all the tablets
might be difficult. And anyway, McDonalds doesn't accept tablets
anymore that don't conform to the 8.5 x 11.5 legal standard.

The point isn't that we're losing our humanity or nature because 
of these hyper-sophisticated devices but that our speed of growth
is already wiping out the traditions of the previous generations,
erasing our family traditions with new ones that really only the 
kids are excited about. Everything has become a website or an
application and changing URL addresses is as easy as changing your
underwear.

But we're excited about this ai growth! And we can't wait to help
you recycle and reuse the best of previous generational technologies, 
mastering machine learning add-ons and new artificial intelligences in
IT infrastructures that create hybrid systems to inspire us all to 
explore our environments and create thriving ecosystems and good jobs 
along the way. Technology is meant to coach us not hinder us.   












  




