

I was recently listening to an Economist interview
with tech mogul Elon Musk. The way it was conveyed
by the tone of each was in moderately oppositional with
a slight hint of anti-authoritarian, you might just
not be so sure which is which.

It was a great interview not just because Zanny Minton 
Beddoes does a great job at being the only journal-
ist who lets dominating tech issues not outweigh
her command of the interview. It isn't easy for most
non-techy oligarchs or bureaucrats to not get lostin
the technical jargon of these fast-talking silicon oi 
salesman. But Beddoes followed along asking the kinds
of technical questions that admittedly most newspapers
get wrong and lose my attention halfway through their 
columns. Elon was rattled and he hit back with his
signature charm and with just a soupcon of arrogance. 

Among several topics discussed, Musk firmly believes 
that in a couple decades we might
actually see the end of traditional work expectations,
by way of nation-states providing income as a guaranteed
basic right of society. Without going through an exhaust-
ive list of all nations providing various parities of soci-
al assistance via Wikipedia research or an LLM prompt
it's safe to say that his vision of affluence involves anth-
ropic as second best to his own xAi. He is a marketing
engine not unlike most other modern technocratic CEOs with 
the small caveat that he also sends rockets to space
and may or may not be more powerful than a titanium
rod itself.

Our business has always focused on technology first, whet-
her or not it generates profit has always been a secondary
concern, contributing to GitHub repositories or editing
online wikis - we have always sought connection and 
community. OpenAi is not the first nonprofit technology
company to change the world. Following in the footsteps
of Mozilla, Wikipedia, Chromium and Linux - the field 
of software engineering is rich with nonprofit contri-
butions that have shaped the globalized locales we now
inherit. The promise of a 'universal guaranteed income' or
'universal high income' as Elon puts it, would do exactly
that, enabling more and more humans the access to tech-
nology such as the internet, cellphone or QR codes that
have become necessities of our local modernities. Far
from issues of class, all kinds of modern homeless peo-
ple now sport smartphones and automobiles, technically
dubbed 'under-employed' in a modern world that is obs-
essed with counting all the beans and where 'unemployment'
is set as against those tax dollars shaped by the capi-
talists, governments and also nonprofits giving Jobs
to billions on earth. We've come a long way since the
lament of Adam Smith - in the face of farmers who couldn't
care less about the free trades of silver or gold.

We think responsible technological conversations are 
those made without duress, without anti-trust monopolies
and seeking to 'drive maximal benefit for as many people'
of our planet, to paraphrase Musk. In obtaining perm-
issions and donations for licenses and wages from philant-
hropy and governments, we are beholden to a wholly diff-
erent set of principles to justify our existence. We 
learn from our communities, draft ethics position papers
and technical specifications in order to provide an ear
to the ground and help shape the unknown unknowns of an
increasingly singular drive for immigration, profits and
affluence. We believe Ai is well-positioned to be one 
of those resources that will likely someday be considered
an essential basic resource and we're here to help you
navigate it for yourself and your organization.     




